you
you might have heard that we're running
out of fresh water this might sound
strange to you because if you live in a
place where water flows freely from the
tap or shower at any time it sure
doesn't seem like a big deal it's just
there right wrong the only obvious thing
about fresh water is how much we need it
because it's essential to life we need
to think about it carefully right now at
this very moment some people women and
girls in particular walk hours and miles
per day to get fresh water and even then
it may not be clean every 15 seconds a
child dies due to waterborne diseases
this is tragic the most compelling
reasons to think about fresh water
therefore have to do with what we might
call the global common good this is not
something we normally think about but it
means recognizing how much freshwater
matters for the flourishing of human and
non-human life on earth now and in the
future how do we think about something
as local as our faucets and is global as
freshwater is there a connection between
them many people assume that fresh water
shortages are due to individual
wastefulness running the water while you
brush your teeth for example or taking
really long showers most of us assume
therefore that water shortages can be
fixed by improving our personal habits
taking shorter showers or turning off
the water while we brush our teeth but
global fresh water scarcity neither
starts nor ends in your shower
globally domestic use of fresh water
accounts for only 8% of consumption 8%
compare that to the 70% that goes to
agriculture and the 22% that goes to
industrial uses now hold up you're not
off the hook
individual habits are still part of the
puzzle you should still cultivate water
virtue in your daily life turn off the
tap when you brush your teeth but still
it's true taking shorter showers won't
solve global problems which is too bad
it would be much more straightforward
and easier if virtuous individual
actions could do the trick you just
stand there for 30 seconds less and
you'd be done with that or some
planet-saving task for the day well
that's not so much the case agricultural
and industrial patterns of water use
needs serious attention how do our
societies value water distribute it
subsidized its use in agriculture
incentivize its consumption or pollution
these are all questions that stem from
how we think about Freshwater's value is
it an economic commodity a human right a
public good Nobel Prize winners global
water justice activists transnational
institutions like the United Nations and
even the Catholic Church are at work on
the issue but it's tricky too because
the business of water became very
profitable in the 20th century and
profit is not the same thing as the
common good we need to figure out how to
value fresh water as a public good
something that's vital for human and
non-human life now and in the future now
that's a virtuous collective task that
goes far beyond your shower
you